to another episode of Between Sermons.
I'm the host, Brent McQuay.
I am the lead pastor here at Disciples Church.
And I'm excited for today because we are back after our little mini vacation.
This is our first podcast in a couple of weeks.
And it is our first podcast of the new year, 2026.
Here we go.
Yay!
No sound effects.
I was going to keep them on.
I was waiting for Ace a...
Right.
I'm going to let y'all do it.
Oh my goodness.
I'd do it with some random spot in the middle of this.
Want to be ready for it.
Right.
Completely inappropriate.
Yeah.
So welcome to Between Sermons.
If you're new here, essentially what we do is we take the monologue from Sunday that Sermon on a stage talking at a crowd of people and we try our best to turn it into a real conversation.
So this is almost like you get to sit in the living room and have a small group with us as we talk through the sermon and dig a little bit deeper, maybe try and get a little bit more practical with what does this actually look like in our lives.
So that is what Between Serms is all about and you can check out some of the older episodes.
And if you have not watched the sermon from Sunday, that's okay.
You can still get some goodness out of this podcast, I think, but it would actually increase your
enjoyment if you actually listen to the sermon as well.
And so, to do this conversation right, I need people in the room.
I need people.
And so, the permanent staple in the far chair, Taisha, co-host, extraordinaire, how you doing today?
I'm good, happy to be back.
I feel excited for 2026.
How about you guys?
Doing good.
Another year, I'm excited.
Just another year?
Are you that person?
I'm just excited daily.
Okay.
I'm a daily exciter.
Were you the last guest of 2025?
Me and soul.
I think so.
Is that the last one?
Maybe.
Look at God.
Ending opening.
Great, this is exciting.
I didn't even know.
It wasn't on purpose.
I would feel like very valued if I thought y'all tried this.
Oh, you are valued.
We value you here, Pastor Aza.
So Pastor Aza's joining us today.
So welcome.
How are you?
Yeah.
Happy 2026.
I'm excited for 2026.
You don't seem excited.
This is amazing.
Oh, gosh.
No, I'm with you though, Aza.
I'm definitely one of those like the sun went down and the sun came up.
Oh, my goodness.
And it's a new day.
And just because on the calendar it says 2026,
like, is it really any different?
Yes, I cut my veins.
So it's different.
See, I wouldn't even know if you wouldn't have told me.
It's a new year.
But my son told me, like, I said, new year, new me.
And he was like, no, you're the same person.
So he's- Neo gets it.
It must be a man thing.
Neo understands it.
Whatever.
Okay, but we do have some new things going on here at Disciples Church, which I'm very excited about.
For one, we started our grounded series.
Yep.
Going to be incredible because I feel like this year this series is setting up what's about to happen.
So tell us a little bit about grounded.
Yeah, it's funny at the title for the series that I proposed that the creative team shot down immediately.
was preparing for Luke.
And they were like, yeah, no.
But that's what we're doing.
We're preparing ourselves for this walk through the book of Luke.
So for those that don't know, we've been talking about this for a little bit, but starting in February, we're just taking a very slow walk through the Gospel according to Luke.
It's gonna be awesome.
We're really excited about it.
We're just breaking the thing down.
And we're gonna learn a lot.
It's gonna be awesome as we just follow the footsteps of Jesus and learn a bunch of stuff.
But we felt like we needed to do some things to kind of gear up for that, to prepare ourselves.
And so over these three weeks for Grounded, we are talking about prayer and fasting.
We're talking about discipleship and we're talking about Bible study.
And so we wanted to give people the tools
that they were going to need as we start walking through Luke.
So I thought preparing for Luke was a fantastic title.
Yes.
Apparently.
One of the worst titles ever did.
I am the only one who even remotely thought that.
It sounds more like it wasn't fully prepared, like that statement seems.
The preparing wasn't prepared.
Gotcha.
But yeah, so grounded, it really is just about that.
It's getting us
kind of rooted getting sure that we've got this strong foundation for what we're gonna be doing throughout the year.
And so we chose those three topics, so prayer and fasting, partially because we start every year with a time of prayer and fasting.
So for the, actually today is day one.
As we record this, as it plays, it'll be what, day three?
So as we're recording, this is day one of our 10 days of prayer and fasting.
That's why I look so happy.
Yeah.
It's only the first day.
No, it's only the first three hours and 40 minutes.
All I skipped was breakfast.
Man.
Got a long journey ahead of us.
So if you see me on Wednesday and you're like, how come in the video you were like smiling and happy and in person, you're a grouch?
Sunday's gonna be a wrap.
Sounds like an excuse to be a grouch.
Man, so you have some self control.
No, no.
I'm going to do what the Bible tells me to do.
I'm going to splash some water on my face.
I'm going to fix my hair.
And I'm going to pretend like I'm not suffering for Jesus.
Yeah, so we talked yesterday.
Our Frowning Pastors, my parents taught us on fasting and prayer, almost like a beginner's guide.
Like, why do we fast?
What's the purpose of it?
What it actually is?
and then how to combine prayer with fasting.
And I love the line, fasting without prayer is just a diet.
And so we merge those two things together for a reason.
This is not like, man, 2025, I put on an extra 10 pounds.
So I'm gonna start 2026, losing some weight.
I'm gonna go on a fast.
No, no, this is not a physical thing.
This is a spiritual thing.
And so we wanted to get that started.
And then this coming Sunday, I'm gonna be talking about discipleship.
We're going to be going through our discipleship essentials, which is basically, I joke that when you rename your church, disciples church, you better have a really good plan for making disciples.
And so Sunday we present the plan.
It's like this, if you want to be a disciple who makes disciples, this is the path to walk.
This is the plan to follow.
So it's going to be very practical on Sunday.
Very, you guys haven't seen my notes yet.
That'll be tomorrow.
Yeah, it's gonna be a fire hose, kind of a Sunday, trying to get a drink from a fire hose.
It's gonna be a lot thrown at you.
Hour and a half worth of content.
Yeah, in 45 minutes.
35, 40 minutes.
It's supposed to be 35, but I gave you an extra 10.
Thank you, I take that 10 every week.
But yeah, so it's our discipleship essentials, our discipleship plan.
And then the week after that, it's gonna get really, really practical, like even more practical than this coming Sunday and very nerdy.
And I'm just going to teach people how to study their Bible.
How do you actually pick up your Bible and learn something from it?
And what do you do and all that?
So it's gonna be, man, the next two Sundays, if you're looking for a spiritual, yeah, exciting, it is not happening.
You know how to kill our marketing around here.
Listen, you show up to church for Jesus, not for whatever you do.
This is what you do.
This is what you feel.
So it's a very, very practical next couple of Sundays.
So that'll make some people very happy and some people very disappointed.
But worship will still be worship, the disciples' church, which is always an exciting moment.
The presence of God will be in the building.
What more do you need?
So we'll be all right.
We should have him in us, actually.
That should be the main, the first point.
Yeah, that's true.
If people show up to church, look over Jesus, and all they find is us, we've done something wrong.
Yeah.
Well, I'm excited, because Ground It was the perfect word, thanks to our creative team.
Ground It was a great title for a preparing for Luke series.
Right, right.
We could have gave you a subtitle.
Somebody could have thrown me a bump, but no, I like your guys subtitle.
I don't even remember what it was now.
I don't either.
But there was there's like three components to it.
I grow an identity.
Come on, pretty.
You got this.
She had great.
This is a great video as well.
Stare off camera at pretty boy.
That's what they do these days.
I watch radio shows when they start showing videos rooted in scripture.
So that'll be our Bible study.
What's that?
firm and identity.
That's going to be the discipleship essentials growing in Christ.
That's going to be our prayer and fasting.
So like the three subtitles, they work for the three messages.
Praise the Lord.
Good job, creative team.
Praise God.
We try to pray.
Get this conversation back on track because I feel like people are tired of us.
talking about random things?
No, I think it's very foundational to what we're going to be discussing today.
So I'm glad we got a little bit about the background of Grounded.
I just want to know, before we dive into the conversation about fasting, what's your history, or what's your personal experience with fasting?
Like, when did you start fasting?
What did you start with?
Like, let's just get a little bit of that.
Let me go first, because mine's not going to be great, so I'm sure you can follow him.
His might be better, so I'm just going to go first.
Personal history, I've started many fasts.
Okay.
You've never concluded.
I've completed some.
Okay.
But never.
I feel like you completed all of them.
You just completed some of them early.
Yeah, prematurely.
Yeah, that's exactly what happened.
Goodness.
Because unless you're still fasting, you finished.
Right.
So I've successfully done 24 hour fast, but anything, I've probably successfully done 30,
maybe almost to the 40s.
Then I just broke and folded like a cheap tent as they say.
So I don't think I've ever made it into the third day, even when I intended to.
Wow.
So that's about my history with fast.
So what we're going to do, everyone, when we see Pastor Acer, we're going to just keep cheering him on.
Okay, we're going to keep going.
2026.
I'm going to do a three day fast, at least once.
You wanna do it during the 10 day?
Right.
You could.
I could, but I'm making the rules here.
You gotta gear up for that.
That's gonna be late in December of 2026.
I'm gonna do 20.
Well, me and my group.
Well, don't do December, because you got Christmas parties and stuff.
Yeah, me and the group, we're already doing.
We meet next Tuesday.
So from Wednesday, Monday, Monday evening, they're gonna have an hour to eat, because we're doing the seven to seven.
But at eight, everybody gonna stop eating, and we're gonna fast.
to eat the next day, to after we meet at seven and worship and pray.
And then we will break bread together.
So we got one 24 hour fast built into this.
I'll get into three after I complete this.
So this will be your first full fast if you complete this 10 days.
No, no, no.
Now this one, no, I'm talking.
Because we're breaking the fast.
Yeah, this one is, I'm talking.
It's like, this is easy.
Yeah, I'm talking.
It's not easy.
But, because anytime you start to fast, I don't care how long it is, you start thinking, oh god, I gotta go get something to eat.
I'm gonna be hungry, I gotta go do something.
I was thinking about chicken this morning.
I do not think about food.
I don't eat breakfast unless I have like a breakfast appointment.
Like 98% of the time I don't eat breakfast.
When I fast, I wake up wanting breakfast.
Absolutely, so yeah, so there's that.
But I don't think this one would be super hard, but who knows, I could be wrong.
Because 12 hours, if I can't make 12 hours, I need to get it together.
OK. You make 12 hours by accident.
Yeah, you can.
You can make 12 hours accidentally.
I'm going to check in.
Now I really want to know, like, every day I want to ask you.
So it's the longer.
This is once we get past 24.
That's fun.
You get complicated.
Yeah.
OK. All right.
So that's where I'm at.
That's my history.
OK. What about you, Pastor?
Well, I was raised here.
Yes.
So you didn't have a share.
So the whole disciples church fasting that goes back to our Christian life center days.
And honestly, like, since I took over, I think I stopped fasting more than we were previously, which maybe we need to figure that out.
Because we used to do prayer and fasting at the beginning of the year and then prayer and fasting over the summer.
And then we turned that prayer and fasting to just prayer.
The 21 days?
Yeah, and it was really spiritual the way somebody, I think it was Pastor John Jones at the time that gave it to us.
He was like, let's do a prayer and feasting instead of a prayer and fasting.
And I was like, really spiritual.
Pastor John, you have just heard from the Holy Spirit.
Yeah, so we did 21 days of prayer and feasting.
And it was just, yeah, it was prayer focused, but like, you can eat your food.
I think this is the year to go back to 21 days of prayer and fasting.
If we do this same seven, seven.
Are you speaking for yourself?
We can do that.
Listen, in real time.
So yeah, so the church, we always do two major fasts a year.
And then we had seasons where we would like encourage everybody to fast like every Wednesday.
And actually I was the youth pastor at the time and I hate it.
It was like, we called the church to a fast on Wednesday.
I hated it.
Because our youth service was on Wednesday.
Like Wednesday was like my busiest day.
And it's a day that like starts like 7 a.m. and ends at like midnight.
And they're like, we're gonna fast on Wednesdays.
I'm like, you all just need to pick a different day.
But yeah, so my prayer and fasting, my fasting experience,
really started with the church, but then it moved to when I was an intern in Colorado, we had a heavy, heavy, heavy emphasis on fasting.
And so that was the first time I did a full three-day fast.
That was the first time I did a full five-day fast.
It was the first time that we did like a 40-day, but like a specialties type of fast, like as a passenger, he bursts everybody's bubble like a Daniel fast.
And we did like a, we did a the C word fast.
which was no Christian cuss words, and you can't say the word can't for it was, I think that was 21 days.
It was very weird.
But yeah, so we had a heavy fasting emphasis.
But it was always a food fast and then something added on.
But we fasted the first three days of every month by default.
So just every month, the first three days, we're fasting.
And then sometimes that would extend.
So instead of just the three days, it'd be five days.
Instead of just the three days, it might be 21 days.
But by default, it was three days to start every month.
And it was part of this concept that another pastor had talked about that he wanted to tithe his year, his month, and his day.
And so tithing his day meant that he spent the first hour or something in prayer and divo.
Fasting his month was the first three days of the month he would actually
or tithing the month would be, fasting the first three days of the month.
And then he would tithe the year and he would go on like a little spiritual retreat for like the first week of the year.
He'd go up in the mountains with a Bible and a tent and just be with God.
And so we kind of adopted some of that practice.
So yeah, so we did a lot of fasting.
Now, that make me sound very spiritual.
I assure you, I was not.
I still, like Asa, there's many fasts that started
Did not end the way they were supposed to end the worst and I just have to tell this because it's funny to me now And it's horrible spiritually, but it was really funny So we were on a Daniel fast But the team that I was a part of we had a very very heavy work week like it was
like we were preparing for this major event.
We're out in the mountains hiking trails, trying to like set up things in the wilderness.
And it was one of those where it was like, man, you need every bit of strength you can get.
And I'm sorry, but the salad just wasn't doing it for me.
And I remember I was with my friend, Dan, his full name is Daniel.
And we went on to the Air Force Academy base to pick up some supplies.
And there was some restaurants on the base or some place for food.
And Daniel said, well, Dan said, I just can't do it, man.
I'm breaking my fast.
And I was like, well, I don't want to break my fast.
But if we're doing a Daniel fast, I'll just order whatever you order.
Oh, my goodness.
Brilliant.
And so that was my loophole for the Daniel fast that year.
I just ate whatever Daniel ate.
And he broke his fast.
I did not.
Just do the Daniel fast.
You know what?
Last time Jerry debunked that whole Daniel fast anyway thing yesterday.
Yeah, so I don't know what that does for your impression of your pastor.
I don't know.
It takes me out a little bit.
But look, I was 20 years old, and I was hungry, and we were out working hard.
That was so cunning.
Like, I could see Bennett doing something, like him and Neo doing something.
They just need to find a friend named Daniel.
Right.
Oh, my goodness.
Speaking of children, would you encourage
members of our church to invite their children to participate.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
My kids have always participated in our fasting.
Now, at what level they participate, it varies.
So we've even done things where if we were doing a Daniel fast, we gave them freedom to, at school, they didn't have to be on the fast because they were having trouble.
They tried the first day and they're like, there's nothing for me to eat.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm sure there's something vegetarian school.
But yeah, it was they were like, we had French fries.
Right.
Yeah.
A plate of French fries probably not the most like the best thing for my child's development.
So so we've always modified fast for our kids.
But yeah, we have conversations with them every time we're doing a fast.
to let them know what we're doing as a family, and then we challenged them to do something individually.
And so in the past, that's been things like, Bennett gave up video games during World War Fast, and Jaden gave up certain shows.
I think it was YouTube or something that he gave up one time.
It's usually Kelsey and my daughter that were like, okay, you can do a little bit better than that.
But yeah, so we highly, highly encourage families to fast together.
But make it age-appropriate.
They're developing.
With any fast, and I think Pastor Jerry talked about it on Sunday, talk to your doctor.
If you've got medical conditions, or you have to take certain medications, and it says only take this with food, OK, well then you need to eat something.
So you modify the fast based on what you can actually do.
Now, if that's just you're having a big back moment, and you're like, I'm hungry,
and I wanna, did that take you a second?
Am I the only one that has big back moments?
Anyways.
I have the moments, I just didn't know the name.
What did we say earlier?
I'm too fat for that?
I'm too fat for that.
Please, oh guys, okay.
Talking about ourselves here.
Jesus.
But yeah, so like if it's just like, well, if I don't eat, I get grumpy.
Like no, that's like crucify your flesh.
But if it's like, if I don't eat, I'll go into a coma.
you should probably need.
But consult with your doctor, and then same thing with the kids.
Make sure that it's appropriate for their age and for their development.
But yeah, I think there's something that everybody can give up.
So I got home yesterday, and apparently mine were inspired by the message, praise the Lord for that.
So they say they in.
They say they doing it.
But Ava, she had a little caveat in there.
She made her own adjustments.
and she say, it's no way she's staying woke in school without drinking something other than water.
So she ain't gonna eat from seven to seven, but she gotta drink something.
Like, okay, well, that's a step.
So yeah, so we'll see what happens.
I'm interested to see.
That's actually the hardest part of this fast for my wife.
My wife is like, I'm not gonna eat from seven to seven, no problem.
I can't have coffee from seven to seven.
She's like, I hate you.
Yeah.
Somebody in my discipleship group was like, you didn't consult with your wife before choosing this fast, did you?
It's like, no, I did not.
Yeah, buddy.
Oh, I don't think I've ever met so without coffee.
Yeah, no.
She does not function without coffee.
I don't think I know her without coffee.
Why do you think she's home right now?
She's staying home today.
No.
No, we had a sick kid at home.
Oh my gosh.
So what about you and fasting?
So my history as a child,
We were made to fast, but then we learned later, it's because our parents didn't go to the grocery store that week.
So it was like, there's no food in here.
Right.
So it's like, we're fasting.
Okay.
That's when they really spin it that way though.
They say we're fasting.
They really did.
And we would sit at the table with our Bible and read, but it was really cause we, they didn't go to the grocery store that week.
And so.
Hey, I have absolutely had moments where I've looked at the fridge, looked at the pantry, looked at my bank account, and go, well, I guess I'm fasting today.
Forced fast, I don't know.
So that's kind of like my experience.
And then when I became, I guess when I got to college and I got this independence, I stood in fast because I felt like my parents didn't tell me the truth about fasting.
So now it's like, I'm going to learn how to do this stuff on my own.
And I was like, I'm going to fast only when I feel like I should.
So I never did.
You've never felt like you should.
I never felt like I should.
Right there with you.
And then when I met David, he used to fast every Wednesday.
I don't know what this Wednesday thing is.
And so I was like trying to please, like not please him, but like trying to be like, ooh, I'm spiritual too.
I'm gonna fast with you.
And then that's when I started to learn about it.
Like, okay, why am I doing this, you know?
And so that's kind of been my relationship with it, but is it something I just seek to do outside of my pastor telling me to do it?
No, and that's bad, but.
No, I think I love people that have a love and a desire for fasting.
That is not my experience.
I hate fasting just like my father does.
We like to eat, we like food.
Food is great, I hate fasting, but I do see the value and the need for fasting in my life.
And so it's something that actually I'm setting out to do more of in 2026 that I think the last, I don't even know how many years, I've gotten more complacent in this area of fasting personally.
And just feeling that, like I'm wearing my disciple sweatshirt on the back, the middle word is disciplined.
It's the three words that define a disciple.
And my eating habits have not been disciplined.
Which I think you can tell just by looking at the camera right now How come you can't handle like I couldn't like the big back It's not truth like I just don't like not true
I'm overweight?
No.
It is very true.
You should talk to my doctor.
I don't like when people speak negative about themselves.
That like really does something to me.
At some point it might motivate them.
I don't view it as negative.
Okay.
I guess that's maybe I'm weird.
Maybe I'm broken.
Maybe even me saying I'm weird or broken is like that's so negative.
A truth is true whether it makes you feel good or not.
Okay.
And I have to like
pep talk myself like I'm playing football like stop being fat.
Let's go get yourself together.
Like literally I lost 50 pounds last year and I gained 20 back.
I got to get it together.
It stopped.
I know what I'm doing.
I need to do better.
So that I just talk to myself like I'm still playing football.
That's that motivates me.
It doesn't motivate me to just ignore it.
I have to kind of now it might take time to motivate me.
But
I have to keep it in front of myself like, okay, you gotta do better.
Come on.
And it's interesting too.
Like, so like, there's this idea in scripture, and I'm actually going to talk about it today in my divo in our prayer meeting, that like God disciplines us or we can discipline ourselves.
And so like God disciplined the people of Israel.
And like one of the ways he disciplined them is in the wilderness, he let them go hungry.
And like it was their hunger was disciplining them.
And then he gave them manna to eat.
And it was like, okay, we're learning to rely on God.
And we're being disciplined like children.
We're being humbled.
Or we can choose to humble ourselves.
Like I can choose to fast.
I can choose to make myself hungry.
or I can have God choose to discipline me and I'm much rather disciplined myself.
That's good because I was thinking like about the whole concept of fasting and how you know where your heart should be with this, but what is kind of like for those who are like first like members never heard of the concept of fasting, why is it important to our church to fast in unity together and
not just do the social media, not just do the Daniel, but really push away food.
What's the significance there?
So part of the significance is, biblically speaking, fasting is always doing without food.
There's never anything that's referred to as fasting in the Bible that is anything else.
And so when we say, hey, I'm gonna fast social media.
Okay, linguistically, I get what you're saying.
That's great and all.
It's a great discipline to have it's probably something that all of us should do on a regular basis I just pull away a little bit disconnect counting that as a Biblical fast just doesn't doesn't work like Biblically speaking fasting is doing away with food So that's what we're calling our church to the unity component is it's actually really really funny to me the the story of Babel in the Bible God talks about how he's like look at them.
They're unified and
And in their unity, nothing will be impossible for them.
And that's when he disrupts language and everybody scatters, because he had wanted them to go out and multiply.
He wanted them to do the scattering thing.
And that was the command he had given them.
And then they weren't doing it.
But in their unity, they were accomplishing some amazing things.
And if you read that passage in Genesis, it talks about all of these great things that are going to happen because of their unity.
And yet they were unified in rebellion.
Like they weren't doing the thing that God wanted them to do.
And yet he was still talking about how amazing their unity, like what it can accomplish.
And so it just makes me always think, okay, if God can actually praise people for their unity, even when they're being rebellious, what if people were not rebellious?
What if we were actually in line with what God wants and we were unified?
Like how much better could that possibly be?
And so I think that there's something, and I don't know how to quantify it or what to label it as, but I think there's something special about a group of people that are unified, that are saying, we're all in this together, we're all gonna push for this together.
There's something about being able to lean on each other in that moment, but I think there's also, we talked about breakthrough, and I think that there's something that just happens when God's people come together
with a common purpose.
And so for me, that's why it's like, I just want everybody to be in this, right?
Like if you can't do the seven to seven thing, okay, find something you can do.
Like let's at least all be unified in that we are consecrating these 10 days to God.
We're humbling ourselves.
We're telling our flesh, look, you're not in charge here.
And I think that there's just something awesome about being able to do that together.
Yeah.
That's really good.
I love how it made me think of a difference to what it made me think of the first love segment and revelations where it was kind of talking about God was praising him for the good, but they forgot the main thing.
And in this story, y'all doing some great things within your unity, but that ain't what I told you to do.
So it's so cool how it's at the end of the day, all of it's about like doing what God tell you to do.
And then, you know, then it's right.
It's not right.
even if it's good if you're not doing what God tells you to do.
So that's really good.
I just, I love that.
Yeah.
And if people are like, man, but Brent, why'd you have to pick 10 days and man, seven to seven, like this is, this is tough.
Look, man, the majority of fasts in the Bible were 40 days.
Like the first fast you read about in the Bible was Moses says that when he went to Mount Sinai, he ate nothing and drank nothing for 40 days and 40 nights.
Like when Jesus went to the wilderness, it was for 40 days and 40 nights.
Like so many of the fasts in the Bible is a 40 day window.
So good luck.
And we pretty soft.
That's what we're talking about.
I never made it past 40 hours, let alone 40 days.
So yeah.
Yeah, it's perspective.
We got to get ourselves together and be a little more committed to this thing because it wasn't for nothing.
And it's not like we don't, it's not like they needed more of Jesus than what we need.
I mean, they was doing it for a purpose and there was great things that came from them doing that.
And we see the examples.
So yeah, we should follow it.
When you, the training, the training that you gave me,
You gave me those 50 videos.
I don't know why he puts training in the air quotes.
You gave me those 50 training videos.
So for the backstory, there's this pastoral training thing that I went to, and they gave me access to the videos.
And so when Asa was just starting off as campus pastor, I was like, man, these videos were fantastic.
They were.
40 lessons from 40 years of ministry from Larry Stocks to like, it's fantastic stuff.
So I was like, Aisa, you watch these videos.
After you watch a video, we'll talk about it.
We'll discuss it.
Is that the training for all?
And basically we did that for like the first video or maybe the second video.
I don't remember how many.
But there were 40 lessons.
And let me tell you, we did not meet about those videos more than four times.
But where I was going with it, the first one is on prayer and fasting.
And it's amazing.
And I think that's what you were referring to earlier with the tithing of the guy I was referring to was his small groups faster.
So he learned from him.
Yeah, he learned from Larry.
Okay.
He learned it from Larry.
Absolutely.
Cause he had Larry Stocksdale was definitely talking about that.
And I was inspired and ready to go in 2023.
Larry's prayer and fasting life just makes you a humble.
Yeah.
And I did nothing with it.
Three years later, I got to get myself together.
What is this?
2026 January.
I'm going to go watch that again.
I'm going to do this.
Be inspired.
Don't see.
Don't teach it to David and Marcus along.
Right.
Be encouraged.
See, our pastors here, they are on a journey as well.
We get better and better.
I know we talked a lot about why fasting is important.
What is the history biblically?
Where did this originate from?
Why is it important spiritually?
Why did they fast in the Bible?
The first written account of somebody fasting is what I mentioned earlier is Moses on Mount Sinai.
So he's getting the Ten Commandments.
He's getting to see God almost face to face.
It's like go hide in the rock.
I'm going to walk by you.
You can kind of see me, but not directly.
And then even that limited experience, when Moses goes back down, his face is glowing.
The people were like, dude, put a paper bag over it.
We can't look at you.
Moses veiled himself because they're like we can't your face is just it's like me in the summertime I get that sunburn and just I Don't have breakfast So bad no, it's gonna be awesome.
I love it
Splash water on my face, fix my hair.
But yeah, so most of the first one that did it, and then we see it kind of sprinkled throughout the Bible.
Mostly what we see fasting happen is with prophets.
So the majority of scriptures that talk about somebody fasting, it's a prophet that's trying to hear from God.
or is consecrating themselves.
It's an act of, sometimes an act of repentance that they chose not to eat as like, hey, I know that our people are in sin and so we're gonna fast and we're gonna pray and we're gonna seek God for his wisdom and his forgiveness and his mercy and all of that.
And so modern day, we're doing the same thing.
Like in our times of fasting, that's why we tie fasting with prayer.
because we want to make sure that this isn't just a diet.
We're not just trying to lose weight at the start of the new year.
So yeah, the church is doing it fast.
I want to lose some weight.
No, this is a spiritual thing that we're doing.
It is an act of disciplining ourselves because it's easier to say no to the cheeseburger for most people than it is to say no to that sin thing that they've
been addicted to, but as you're learning to say no to this part of your flesh, you can say no to this part of your flesh too.
And so for people that are like habitual sins or things that are just, there are addictions and things that are trying to break through, like fasting is a great way to spiritually kind of remind your flesh that the flesh isn't in charge.
And so even though I have a desire to do this thing that I know the Bible tells me not to do, I can tell my desires no.
And that's what fasting, especially if you start fasting on a regular basis, like you're training your spiritual muscles to say no to your flesh.
And so that's what we're trying to do.
And in that, we're also, we're consecrating ourselves, we're humbling ourselves, we're preparing ourselves for what we believe God wants to do next in Disciples Church and in our personal lives, especially with our first love conference coming up.
We always choose to fast at the start of the year because it's a great reminder it's the start of the year.
time to come back to God, but it's also our conference is at the end of January every year.
And so just preparing ourselves spiritually for what God wants to do that during that time, those three days together.
I think it's huge.
So yeah, so it's an act of humility.
It's an act of sacrifice, of surrender, of man, you throw all kinds of words at what fasting is.
That's why it's so important in our lives.
So it
changing the topic, but maybe, but Pastor Chris talked about the listening part through the prayer, um, about being quiet and listening to God.
As he was talking, I'm thinking like, what is that?
How does that look for y'all?
Like I do a lot of things.
Silence comes a lot of ways.
I guess I could say one.
Y'all heard me talk about just running in the middle of the wilderness and not saying nothing.
Um, just sitting while praying and just stopping and being quiet.
Um,
Even though this ain't silent, sometimes I feel like just sitting listening to worship, I hear God pretty well.
So I'm just wondering, what does that look like?
And I know I ain't, I don't turn into the whole, I'm asking the questions.
I'll share in conversation here.
What does that look like?
For you, Tyisha, Pastor Brent's been talking.
My devotional time in the morning time, I would read a passage or sometimes I'll just sit and just allow God to talk.
really funny happened to me this, uh, normally in January, I do a thing where I sit with my Bible and I allow God to like give me words and I'm not calling myself a prophet, but like just for my family, for my life, like what I should be focused on, like I'll pray into those things.
And so I'll, I do it every January.
And I say, I don't, I don't go before God to ask some many more instructions throughout the year.
So this January, I did it January 1st.
And he, you know, he spoke to me, he said, and you know, you can come to me even outside of this.
Say I'm open always.
That's it.
I was like, I just laughed.
And I'm like, you're right.
Like, you know, you take your instructions and you go throughout the year and you.
We really don't sit with God and say, what are you saying for today?
Or what are you saying for this month?
And sometimes we feel like it's a one time thing, like let's just do it once.
Or we wait for other people to give a word and we hold on to that word.
And so for me, I just sit and I'll pray, read scripture and I'll just sit.
I literally just sit quietly and allow the Holy Spirit to just show me or yeah.
Talk to me.
That's good.
I really like that.
I love it.
I could never do that.
My brain does not allow just sitting.
Just sitting, nothing.
No, no.
But yeah, for me, listening to God happens a lot when I've got something else in the background.
Like sometimes I'll have like audio Bible playing or worship music playing or something.
And it's just, that's my like meditation moment.
And it's that active process of trying to not let my brain think about to-do lists and action steps and all kinds of stuff.
just sometimes just focus in on the words of the song or the scripture.
And it feels like that's when I'll get more inspiration from God than other places.
It's almost like I have to trick my body into doing something else though.
Like to really, so like it's kind of funny, like God speaks a ton in two places.
One, when I'm driving.
And two, when I'm in worship here at Disciples Church.
Like Sunday mornings, like if you see me pull out my phone and I'm like typing really fast, I'm probably actually not sending a text message.
I'm actually writing down.
I always thought you were.
And sometimes I am texting people like, hey, why did that screen just go black?
Yeah.
So yeah, it is it is a mix.
But yeah, I could pull out my phone and show you like like sermon ideas and then just prayer requests and different things that
Like, oh yeah, that was during worship.
I just felt like God was giving me a nudge in that direction.
But then the other place is when I'm driving.
And there's something about, I don't know if I have an overactive brain or something, but I need my body to be focused on something so that my mind can go somewhere else.
I can see that part of it and just stay and walk, especially after prayer moments if I just stop.
If I'm on the floor, like at home, I can be on the floor and I'm laying there.
I'd be sleep before I know it.
So I almost have to do something active to stay like I guess like kind of like you say give your body something to do.
Yeah, that even helps the mind quiet down because it is a Something always there, but I know that's why running helps because yeah, it's just me in the woods and I'm running and and I'm breathing and it's just a natural
calming working out another great great moment.
I just didn't use that because I haven't worked out in like six months.
We have a bigger issue here.
I have a very big issue.
But I just have a thought like a question and maybe you can do monkey.
I was challenged to sit quietly because it's like we seeing God as a person.
that I'm waiting to hear from.
So why would it, if, so if you know you're in conversation with God, like why would you fall asleep or why would you need to be distracted?
Because isn't it like a one on one moment?
I mean, and this is just my mind.
And I don't think it's a need to be or why do I, I think, I don't think it's a choice.
I just think it happens for me more than it's, I think I have to make a choice.
I don't know.
I have to make a choice to focus.
But even in that, even if I make a choice, like I'm just gonna sit here.
I find myself thinking about something else.
So I don't know.
So it's not really a, I don't know, it just happens.
It happens that way for me.
And I could sit there.
And there are times when I feel like I need to just sit.
But I would say a lot of times if I'm praying and I,
I really just want to hear from God.
Yeah, I'll give that moment.
But I also think that there's something about the way my brain is wired that if I try to just sit and not think, I'm going to be thinking, don't think.
Right?
It's just going to be a constant.
My effort is going to be in, don't think about the dog.
I know that I got to go to the store and buy that.
No, don't think about that thing that I need to go do.
No, don't think about the kids and what they're doing.
And now, what good is that?
And so I don't know if that's the way my brain chemistry works or what, but yeah, it would be less productive for me to just always just sit and just wait.
And yeah, I think that you're not wrong in saying it's supposed to be conversation, it's back and forth.
And yeah, there's absolutely times I'm praying and God speaks in that moment.
The important thing is to not just kind of steamroll over it, just one side of the conversation.
So yeah, I think that there is, I mean, Bible says, be still and know that I'm God.
Like that's hard for some people to be still.
We're so honest here, I love that.
This is why.
Why would I lie about it?
No, not a lie, but I'm saying is I like that we're transparent.
And it's good that it's just no one way.
Yeah.
It's not a one way thing.
I mean, God can speak however he wants.
Yeah.
And I think it's just a matter of us giving him
the space and I think you can give him the space while still doing something, not like I'm watching TV trying to give him the space, but worship, walking, praying in the spirit.
Like if you see me in prayer a lot, I walk because I don't know.
I just walk and pray in the spirit because that just, I'm able to, I don't know.
I'm just able to do that.
That works better for me than just sitting in the chair.
My happy space on the internship, when we would have our devo services or worship service that wasn't a Sunday morning thing.
I would just go to the back of the room and just walk around.
But it was that keeping moving.
Yeah, that pace.
Yeah.
So even now, if you guys want our chapels we do once a month as a staff, I'm always moving around.
You're usually over there moving, and I'm in the back.
And then all the people that are just sitting there, and I'm like, I'd be asleep so fast.
I'm a walker too, but.
I know how to sit.
You know, maybe incorporate.
If you've been struggling to to have quiet time with God, maybe incorporate some movement with it.
That's good.
OK, so now my next question again, because we might have a lot of people who are new to words like hearing the voice of God, what does that feel like?
Or how could they say like I heard the voice of God without over complicating or making it spooky?
I love one thing that Pastor Chris said yesterday when she talked about
that still small voice comes, but it comes with peace.
That's kind of how I recognize the voice of God.
Like it's a calming voice usually to me.
It's not hectic.
It's just still small voice and it's just peaceful.
So I think that helps me now, but I am also aware that I need to judge it against the word.
So I know if it's something that don't sound right.
If I ain't ever heard that in a word, then maybe I'm tripping right now.
But I think it's just a matter of, I think it also was a matter of trusting that you can hear God also.
So you may be hearing God, but not, you may be talking yourself out of it.
You know, if you're not used to hearing God.
My sheep know me and they hear my voice.
Yeah.
So it's a piece with it.
It helps my mother talking.
That was one of the first things she taught us.
Listen, follow you're a man.
The Lord talks, he speaks.
It's a still small voice usually.
And I don't even know that she taught the peace part, but that came later.
Later, somebody, I don't know if it was a teaching or what it was, but it was about following peace.
Jesus is the Prince of peace, but ain't no peace in it.
It's probably not God.
And if it's peace in it, the devil don't have peace.
His words don't come with peace usually.
Yeah, I think.
So I want to try and help some people because I think even some of the things that we're saying here.
Still too much.
It's like, is it my voice?
Is it a woman's voice?
And then even like the peace thing.
I'm 100% on board like the peace thing, but God can tell you something and you be terrified of it and still have an element of peace within the terror.
And it's weird and it's hard to explain.
But it's one of those things where it's like, oh man, I really don't want to talk to my neighbor about
coming to church with me.
But I really just felt like I'm supposed to go talk to my neighbor.
But that makes me so anxious.
So that can't be God.
No, that was obviously God.
Like we're like, that's what you're supposed to do.
So like there's a peace.
Yeah.
But there's also like, yeah, he's asking you to do something that's uncomfortable.
But you should still do the uncomfortable thing.
So that's the caution I give.
And then
with the whole hearing his voice, hearing his voice, hearing his voice.
I think it paints a picture for some people that there's like an audible.
It hurts me God.
Like I'll just, man.
God knows how like that in my ear.
There are probably Christians that have a much better spiritual life than me and actually hear an audible voice.
But I will say generally speaking, if you're hearing voices.
Oh gosh.
That's not a spiritual thing.
That's a go see it.
doctor kind of thing.
How do you decipher?
Yeah.
And so, yeah, I don't know if I just burst a lot of people's bubbles or offended people or whatnot, but it's what we do here.
So when we talk about hearing the voice, it's that's the best grammar that we can come up with for what it feels like.
But it's more thought than anything else.
Like there's a thought that comes in your head that
is going to be rooted in Scripture.
It's going to be true to God's nature, his character, to his word.
It's going to bring with it an element of peace for sure.
And it's going to give you direction.
It's giving you something that you're supposed to do or believe or understand.
It's guidance.
And so, what ultimately what we do, and this is where everybody always has a question, how do I know if it's just my thoughts or if it's God's thoughts?
And I don't know that there's a perfect, like punch it into the formula.
And as long as the equation works out, like here's the, like I don't think it works that way.
I think there's a lot of testing.
And so you hear something and you test it.
Bring it to another believer that you've got a relationship with.
We use this for a lot of different things.
But I say scripture spirit saints is like our,
the trifecta.
So does this thing line up with scripture first?
Next up is if I brought it to some other believers, that's what we call the saints, like the body of Christ, and are they in agreement with this thing?
And then in my prayer time, does it feel like the Holy Spirit is confirming this thing?
That's a good indication that it's not just random thoughts.
Sometimes, man, testing it means act on it, like it.
It's one of those where the example I've gotten from people is like, man, I really feel like God was giving me a word for my neighbor that I was supposed to go talk with them and share this thing and pray with them.
If that was God, awesome.
If that wasn't God, is that a bad thing to go and pray with your neighbor?
No.
go pray with your neighbor that's awesome like that's that's something that a Christian should do even if God didn't tell you to go pray for your neighbor you should see your neighbor and be like hey can I pray for you like that's so so like testing it sometimes means just stepping out in faith and saying hey I believe this is what God had wanted me to do and if I'm wrong that doesn't
kill my faith in God, it just means I was wrong.
And I'm gonna try better next time, I'm gonna bring it to somebody else next time and say, hey, last time I got this wrong, this time I wanna make sure I got it right.
And it's tricky, but yeah.
And I think kinda with anything, you do get more comfortable with believing that it's God that you're hearing.
I think like some of the tests for me,
as a pastor.
So now I get asked questions about things and it's like, hey, what does this mean?
Somebody said this to me and think it was a prophecy.
And I'm like, oh God.
And literally I had an example.
I took something.
I sat with it in prayer.
I was downstairs in noon prayer on the couch looking at this thing.
Somebody sent me that they wanted me to give me my thoughts on.
And the word that I believe the Lord gave me, I was like, I can't say that to this person guy.
Lord, is this you?
And I sat on it.
A week later, I'm in the same spot on that couch.
And I knew this meeting was coming up with this person.
And all that, all I could think of is, I wasn't even, I was trying not to think of this word, but that word just kept rising up.
And then I would try to like formulate what I was going to say.
And it was clear.
No, that's not what I said.
Don't add to it.
Say this.
I was trying to make it clean.
Let me make this softer.
And when I did it, I started it with a little bit of my extra, and I said, no, time out.
God didn't say that.
This is what he said.
This.
This word.
Let me think, too.
Don't hit me.
And the person was like,
And he told me that before.
I was like, praise the Lord.
You know, but that came from practicing it over time.
And now it's like step out and do this.
And I'm like, okay, let me do this Lord.
So at least that helps now that I believe.
And I knew, you know, to you, you know, and then you experience, we know that we've been taught on those things.
So I know that God does that.
Sometimes he do it and I don't even, it's not even like that.
It's just,
Somebody say something and I feel impressed.
I say something and it blessed their life.
And I don't even know what I said.
You know what I mean?
And praise the Lord for that.
But this one was so specific and it was so like, man, I only really want to say this, God, but I, I believe with all my heart.
That's what kept coming to me.
So I'm like, dang, I got to say this.
And it was right.
Praise the Lord.
But if it was wrong, I did my due diligence to really sit with it.
Pray on it.
I'm reading scripture.
Like I was really like seriously praying about it.
And I'm like, this is what I got.
I just got to trust it.
So it does come down to, I feel like God, he don't just throw you into the deep.
He'll maybe step you to where you need to go.
So like start with the little stuff, really.
Because it's not like he gonna say, go up there and
and you don't even know if you hear from God.
Just take baby steps.
Yeah, and you know, we do things in order at Decibel Street.
So if you felt like God was telling you to go up and take the microphone and say everything, you come talk to me or ASA first and we'll tell you yes or no.
And if we tell you no and you felt really passionately that God was telling you yes, that's okay.
Like you have now submitted it to the authority of the house.
Yeah, but something you hit on that I wanted to just echo is that persistence.
For me, the when I know this is more God than Brent is when it just keeps coming back.
And it could be I went off to do something else like I've that's that's not what I'm even thinking about or worrying about and it just keeps coming up, keeps coming up, keeps coming up.
And
And it's funny because I like to give people that as a indication that, yes, this is God, but at the same time I hated in my own life because that persistence means I didn't listen the first time.
And I want to get to a place where I listen to the first time so that I don't, he doesn't have to repeat himself.
But sometimes it's the him repeating himself that makes me realize, oh, that was God, that wasn't just me.
Yeah.
Man, that's so good.
That's going to encourage a lot of people, I think.
Hopefully.
No, I think it will.
That is a number one question like how do I know I'm hearing from God and that's gonna couple with prayer and fasting.
So I think that was a good piece.
So we do have to land the plane to make sure we get to you, noon day prayer.
I gotta go lead prayer in 30 minutes.
Yes.
So let's just give a takeaway from the message because we talked a little bit about the history.
We talked about, you know, how to hear the voice of God.
So let's kind of give some application from the message to as our takeaway.
Yeah.
Well, I liked all of it, but I think the humble yourself part is something that we, that it's good to focus on and say, yeah, I need to humble myself like on purpose.
Because you'd never know.
You can be doing your best to walk right, but you need God to shine a light on it, other people to shine a light on how you're acting and, you know, what's going on with you.
Sometimes other people can see it.
You can't see it.
part of prayer and fasting and part of the message about you will be humbled through this because it's all about really settling down this flesh, settling down these emotions to be able to hear God.
So, I like to humble yourself part for that reason because I just think it's a correlation with you need to hear God.
You need to make more room about hearing God and putting yourself aside and your thoughts and your feelings and your emotions and all of those things and just be humbled.
Yeah.
Let God humble you.
Yeah, for me, it's the half to versus get to.
And so Pastor Chris talked a little bit about it, but for me, it's just, it goes into so many different things that if your Christian walk, if your walk as a disciple is all of the things that you have to do, it's miserable.
But when you look at it as opportunity that I get to do this, like when it comes to prayer and fasting, especially over these next 10 days, what you're saying is I get to,
draw closer to God, I get to crucify my flesh and humble myself and say, look, flesh, you're not in control here.
That you get to say, God, I'm putting you first.
Even before a meal, you're first.
Even though everything in my body says I want a cheeseburger right now, I want you more.
I get to draw closer to him.
I get to prepare myself.
spiritually for what God's going to do at first love.
I get to hear from God during this fast and beyond.
And maybe we didn't talk about that enough, like hearing from God during a fast, hearing from God after a fast, yeah.
That's man.
During the fast, you're going to be grumbling and complaining and trying your best.
And some people they hear from God during the fast.
I think the majority of people they hear from God after the fast.
And so.
Well, we're just, we get to do this thing.
We get to draw closer to God.
That's good.
What you got?
So the word that...
David and I are focusing on for this year's devoted.
It was on the back of that sweatshirt you have on.
We should just have you stand up and turn, and I'm just playing.
Devoted, disciplined, and duplicated.
Yes.
So it goes with that surrender piece that Pastor Chris talked about, Mama Chris talked about yesterday.
And I feel like this is such a great time as devoted disciples to really practice that word surrender.
Like we sing about it, we talk about it all the time, but this is like 10 days, okay?
Are you really surrendering?
Like this is a practical, physical thing you could do by denying yourself and pushing away the plate and, you know, humbling yourself for God.
So I would just encourage you to take this season.
I don't want to say seriously because that sounds so mean, but yeah, take it seriously because we are, we are disciples and this is a great start to the year.
This is a great start.
And so I love that our church give us an opportunity to do this and really practice that devotion and that surrender.
So I just encourage you to stay strong.
Stay on it.
Stay strong.
All right.
Until next week, we love you so much.
Tune back in.
Keep us lifted because we're going to do this podcast on the fast next Monday and it's going to be real.
We're fine.
We're eating it.
They're not going to even mention it.
Yeah, it's gonna be great.
It's gonna be great.
So we'll see you next week.
We love you.
Bye.